# Power Systems Digital Twins
In this Chapter, we introduce a formal definition of power system DTs and discuss their main features, compared with generic DTs. 

## Digital Twins - A generic definition
The concept of DTs was initially introduced by NASA in 2010. The concept was originally proposed for space vehicle monitoring, aiming to support engineers in simulating and understanding how such vehicles would respond and behave in space. NASA's objective was to simulate technical problems under space conditions to devise preventive solutions. According to NASA, a DT is *"an integrated multi-physics, multiscale, probabilistic simulation of an as-built vehicle or system that uses the best available physical models, sensor updates, fleet history, etc., to mirror the life of its corresponding flying twin"* {cite:p}`Glaessgen2012`. In contrast, the International Academy for Production Engineering (CIRP) defined DTs as *"a digital representation of an active unique product (real device, object, machine, service, or intangible asset) or unique product-service system (a system consisting of a product and a related service) that comprises its selected characteristics, properties, conditions, and behaviors by means of models, information, and data within a single or even across multiple life cycle phases"* {cite:p}`Stark2019`. 

NASA's definition recognizes three key features of DTs: a *physical entity (or system)*, a *digital entity*, and their bi-directional, real-time, automated data exchange. These DT features enable DTs to deliver NASA's expected functionalities, including the ability to self-adapt, forecast future states, predict system responses, and mitigate damage. In this context, NASA's DTs are primarily concerned with real-time operation, with little regard for their use in other phases of the physical system, such as evolution and long-term planning. In contrast, the CIRP definition recognizes that DTs can provide value not only during the operation phase but also across other life cycle phases, but it places little emphasis on the (real-time) bidirectional data flow between the physical and its digital counterpart. Figure X compares the key features considered in the NASA and CIRP definitions. In general, both NASA's and CIRP's definitions disregard several features and functionalities important to power systems, and as a result, they do not properly suit the electricity infrastructure, especially considering that in power systems, life cycle phases are well-defined and segmented, with processes spanning the control, operation, and planning phases. 

### Digital Twins vs Models

# Power Systems Digital Twins - A proper definition
We define a power systems DT as *a collection of modules and models (based on multi-physics simulation) integrated into a single software ecosystem with advanced data management and visualization capabilities, aimed at mirroring the real-time operation of power systems and supporting their long-term planning {cite:p}`Zomerdijk2024`.* This definition recognizes that the basic key features of DTs (i.e., a physical and digital system and their bidirectional data connection) are not enough to represent the range of services and modules used by DSOs and TSOs. Moreover, it disregards the established processes of DSOs and TSOs (i.e., control, real-time operation, and long-term planning) and fails to properly integrate them. The presented definition aims to overcome this by also recognizing that power system DTs are complex, large-scale software development tasks that require proper standards and interfaces to facilitate integration with current DSO and TSO models and processes.  





