# Power Systems 
The power system is a large, interconnected network that facilitates the transmission and distribution of electricity from power generation sources to end users. In power systems, there is a natural distinction between transmission and distribution, which is also reflected in several modelling assumptions. At the transmission level, electricity is transported over long distances and in large amounts, primarily through overhead lines. To minimize transmission losses, electricity is usually transported at high voltages, which reduces the current magnitude and thus the power losses. In the Netherlands, the transmission network operates at voltage magnitudes ranging from 150 kV to 400 kV. The transmission network is operated by the transmission system operator (TSO), which in the Netherlands is TenneT. 

At the distribution level, electricity is progressively stepped down from transmission voltages to levels safe and suitable for end users. This process begins at substations, where distribution system operators (DSOs) transform transmission voltage to medium voltage (MV) levels, typically between 10 kV and 66 kV. MV substations serve both transport and distribution across regional and local areas and provide connections to a large number of industrial users. To reach residential users, MV levels are converted to low-voltage (LV) levels of about 400 V. 

Transmission and distribution systems exhibit significant electrical and operational differences. In general, distribution systems have a higher resistance-to-reactance ($R/X$) ratio than transmission systems. From an operational perspective, distribution systems operate in radial configurations, whereas transmission systems operate in loop or meshed configurations. Finally, distribution systems usually operate under unbalanced three-phase behaviour, while transmission systems tend to operate in balanced conditions. All these differences can be seen in the assumptions used when developing models for both transmission and distribution systems. 

For a more detailed description of transmission and distribution systems, readers are referred to {cite:ps}`SchavemakervanderSluis`.

# Power Systems Modelling

